--- layout: post title: "Home Office Hails 'Squandered Billions' as Triumphant First Step in New 'Aggressive Incompetence' Strategy" date: 2025-10-27 15:06:15 +0000 categories: politics satire image: https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/e/e4/Home_Office_2_Marsham_Street.jpg caption: <a href="https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Home_Office_2_Marsham_Street.jpg">ChiralJon</a>, <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0">CC BY 2.0</a>, via Wikimedia Commons ---  LONDON—Following a scathing report from MPs that the Home Office "squandered billions" on asylum hotels via "flawed contracts" and "incompetent delivery," a department spokesperson today celebrated the findings as a "resounding success."  "We are absolutely thrilled," said a Home Office representative, speaking from a hastily-booked £800/night luxury suite. "For years, we've been accused of *routine* incompetence. This report confirms we have successfully transitioned to a new model of *spectacular*, industrial-scale incompetence. 'Squandered billions' is the benchmark we were aiming for."  The department's new "synergistic failure" approach reportedly involves learning from other government successes. "We were deeply inspired by our colleagues at the prison service," the spokesperson continued, referencing the accidental release of a migrant sex offender on Friday. "We saw that and thought, 'Now *that's* how you manage capacity.' It's the kind of 'out-of-the-box' thinking on accommodation and processing we're trying to embed in our hotel contracts."  The spokesperson explained that the new "extra checks" being introduced in prisons are now being considered for Home Office contract negotiators, to ensure no contract is "accidentally competent" in the future.  The news was met with cautious optimism elsewhere. Reform MP Sarah Pochin, after apologising for complaining that adverts were "full" of black and Asian people, was overheard telling a colleague, "Well, at least they're wasting money on *everyone*, I suppose."  Chancellor Reeves, who this morning hinted at a "tax and spend shift," is now believed to be creating a new "Headroom for Future Shocks," a multi-billion pound contingency fund specifically for buffering the public from the next inevitable Home Office procurement disaster.